docs/index.md, before:

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD033 -->
# VsCode Groovy Lint, Format and Fix

[![Visual Studio Marketplace Version (including pre-releases)](https://img.shields.io/visual-studio-marketplace/v/NicolasVuillamy.vscode-groovy-lint)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=NicolasVuillamy.vscode-groovy-lint)
[![Visual Studio Marketplace Installs](https://img.shields.io/visual-studio-marketplace/i/NicolasVuillamy.vscode-groovy-lint)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=NicolasVuillamy.vscode-groovy-lint)
[![Test](https://github.com/nvuillam/vscode-groovy-lint/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/nvuillam/vscode-groovy-lint/actions/workflows/test.yml)
[![Mega-Linter](https://github.com/nvuillam/vscode-groovy-lint/actions/workflows/mega-linter.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/nvuillam/vscode-groovy-lint/actions/workflows/mega-linter.yml)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/nvuillam/vscode-groovy-lint.png)](https://github.com/nvuillam/vscode-groovy-lint/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/nvuillam/vscode-groovy-lint.png?label=Star&maxAge=2592000)](https://GitHub.com/nvuillam/vscode-groovy-lint/stargazers/)
[![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.png?style=flat-square)](https://makeapullrequest.com)

**Lint** (code quality), **Format** and **Auto-fix** your groovy files and Jenkinsfile

[Visual Studio Code extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=NicolasVuillamy.vscode-groovy-lint) embedding [npm-groovy-lint](https://github.com/nvuillam/npm-groovy-lint#README), itself embedding [CodeNarc](https://codenarc.github.io/CodeNarc/)

- You can [configure the rules](https://github.com/nvuillam/npm-groovy-lint#configuration) by defining a `.groovylintrc.json` file
- If you use **CI**, you can integrate [Mega-Linter](https://github.com/nvuillam/mega-linter#readme) in your workflow, to **make sure all your sources (groovy and other) are clean**

![image](https://github.com/nvuillam/vscode-groovy-lint/raw/main/images/vscode-anim.gif)

## Features

| Command                                | Description                                                                                      | Access                                                   |
|----------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------|
| **Analyze code**                       | Lint the code of the current file                                                                | Ctrl+Shift+F9<br/>Contextual</br>Status bar<br/>Commands |
| **Format**                             | Format the code of the current file                                                              | Shift+Alt+F<br/>Contextual</br>Commands                  |
| **Fix all auto-fixable problems**      | Fix the code of the current file                                                                 | Contextual</br>Commands                                  |
| **Lint folder**                        | Lint all applicable files of a folder                                                            | Contextual                                               |
| Fix single error                       | Apply quick fix for a single problem                                                             | Quick Fix<br/>Diagnostic                                 |
| Fix _rule_ in entire file              | Apply quick fix for all problems related to the same rule in the current file                    | Quick Fix<br/>Diagnostic                                 |
| Disable _rule_ for this line           | Disable rule only for current line                                                               | Quick Fix<br/>Diagnostic                                 |
| Disable _rule_ for this entire file    | Disable rule in the entire file                                                                  | Quick Fix<br/>Diagnostic                                 |
| Disable _rule_ for this entire project | Updates configuration file<br/>(usually `.groovylintrc.js` in root folder) to disable this rule | Quick Fix<br/>Diagnostic                                 |

- _**Contextual**_: *right click in source code or on folder_
- _**Commands**_: *Ctrl+Shift+P then type command name_
- _**Status bar**_: _GroovyLint status item at the bottom right_
- _**Quick Fix**_: _Hover an underlined part of the code after a lint, click Quick Fix then select action to perform_
- _**Diagnostic**_: _Right click on a diagnostic in Problems section_

## Extension Settings

| Parameter                    | Description                                                                                                     | Default              |
|------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------|
| `groovyLint.enable`          | Controls whether GroovyLint is enabled or not                                                                   | true                 |
| `groovyLint.lint.trigger`    | Run the linter on save (onSave), on type (onType) , or on user request                                          | onSave               |
| `groovyLint.format.enable`   | Controls whether the groovy formatter is enabled or not                                                         | true                 |
| `groovyLint.fix.enable`      | Run the auto-fixer on save (onSave), on type (onType) , or on user request                                      | true                 |
| `groovyLint.fix.trigger`     | Run the fixer on save (onSave), or on user request                                                              | user                 |
| `groovyLint.basic.loglevel`  | Linting error level (error, warning,info)                                                                       | info                 |
| `groovyLint.basic.verbose`   | Turn on to have verbose logs                                                                                    | false                |
| `groovyLint.basic.config`    | [NPM groovy lint configuration file](https://github.com/nvuillam/npm-groovy-lint#configuration)                 | .groovylintrc.json   |
| `groovyLint.debug.enable`    | Display more logs in VsCode Output panel (select "GroovyLint") for issue investigation                          | false                |
| `groovyLint.java.executable` | Override java executable to use <br/>Example: C:\\Program Files\\Java\\jdk1.8.0_144\\bin\\java.exe              | java                 |
| `groovyLint.java.options`    | Override java options to use                                                                                    | "-Xms256m,-Xmx2048m" |
| `groovyLint.insight.enable`  | Allow to send anonymous usage statistics used only to improve the tool (we will of course never send your code) | false                |

## Troubleshooting

- [**Node.js**](https://nodejs.org) version **18 or higher** is required to run this extension. If you can't upgrade, you can use [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) to have [different node versions on your computer](https://www.sitepoint.com/quick-tip-multiple-versions-node-nvm/)

- [**Java**](https://www.java.com/download) version **17 or higher** is required to run this extension

- As CodeNarc is run in background with java/groovy, performances could be improved on large files (do not hesitate to provide advices !)
But do not worry, as the groovy linting is provided by a background local server, your VsCode won't be slowed.

## Contribute

Contributions are very welcome on :

- [VsCode Groovy Lint](https://github.com/nvuillam/vscode-groovy-lint)
- [NPM Groovy Lint](https://github.com/nvuillam/npm-groovy-lint) (linter called by this extension)

Please follow [Contribution instructions](https://github.com/nvuillam/vscode-groovy-lint/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)

## Special Thanks

- [stevenh](https://github.com/stevenh), for his huge refactoring of npm-groovy-lint and vscode-groovy-lint, saving them from deprecation :)

- [yuvmel](https://github.com/yuvmel), for his great support on [#18](https://github.com/nvuillam/vscode-groovy-lint/issues/18) that allowed VsCode Groovy Lint to work much better on Mac, Linux, and with other diagnostic extensions

## Release Notes

### [3.0.0] 2023-12-17

- Update all packages, to address security issues and bring in the latest version of npm-groovy-lint and related fixes.
- Refactor of tests to more reliable, including being independent of each other so if one test fails others are not effected.
- Fix partial fixes never applying due to [npm-groovy-lint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm-groovy-lint) v10.0.0 breaking change.
- Fix Analyze Groovy files in folder ([#177](https://github.com/nvuillam/vscode-groovy-lint/issues/177))
- Debug sessions correctly enable debugging by default including npm-groovy-lint.
- Upgrade MegaLinter and fix related issues

### [2.0.0] 2022-08-13

- Upgrade to [npm-groovy-lint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm-groovy-lint) v10.0.0
  - Upgrade to [CodeNarc 3.1.0](https://github.com/CodeNarc/CodeNarc/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
  - Many fixes and enhancements (see [npm-groovy-lint release note](https://github.com/nvuillam/npm-groovy-lint/releases/tag/v10.0.0))

- UI
  - Better display for issues contextual menu

- Fixes
  - Wrong lines highlighted when spaces are replaced by tabs
  - Document should not be reopened if closed without saving
  - Some errors were displayed at the beginning of the file instead of the good line
  - Wrong diagnostics lines are format or fix

### [1.9.1] 2022-08-08

- Fix bug when file diagnostics is stuck with message `GroovyLint is analyzing code...` ([#157](https://github.com/nvuillam/vscode-groovy-lint/issues/157))
- CI: Upgrade to [MegaLinter v6](https://oxsecurity.github.io/megalinter/latest/)

### [1.9.0] 2022-04-12

- Upgrade to [npm-groovy-lint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm-groovy-lint) v9.5.0
  - Disable telemetry by default

### [1.8.0] 2022-02-25

- Disable telemetry by default ([#93](https://github.com/nvuillam/vscode-groovy-lint/issues/93))

### [1.7.5] 2022-01-26

- Fix crash when npm-groovy-lint does not return results ([#141](https://github.com/nvuillam/vscode-groovy-lint/issues/141))

### [1.7.4] 2022-01-09

- Upgrade to [npm-groovy-lint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm-groovy-lint) v9.3.2
  - Upgrade cli-progress to avoid [colors lib boring but harmless hack](https://github.com/Marak/colors.js/issues/285)

### [1.7.3] 2022-01-06

- Upgrade to [npm-groovy-lint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm-groovy-lint) v9.3.1
  - Fix issue when used as module and with file containing spaces ([#137](https://github.com/nvuillam/vscode-groovy-lint/issues/137))

### [1.7.2] 2021-12-29

- Upgrade to [npm-groovy-lint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm-groovy-lint) v9.3.0
  - Upgrade again log4j to avoid security flaw

### [1.7.1] 2021-12-24

- Upgrade to [npm-groovy-lint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm-groovy-lint) v9.2.0
  - Upgrade again log4j to avoid security flaw

### [1.7.0] 2021-12-14

- Upgrade to [npm-groovy-lint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm-groovy-lint) v9.1.0
  - Upgrade log4j to avoid security flaw

### [1.6.0] 2021-11-27

- Detect Jenkinsfile

### [1.5.2] 2021-11-24

- Fix TS error & package-lock.json version

### [1.5.1] 2021-11-23

- Upgrade to [npm-groovy-lint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm-groovy-lint) v9.0.0
  - Upgrade to [CodeNarc 2.2](https://github.com/CodeNarc/CodeNarc/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
  - Adds [Groovy 3.0.9](http://groovy-lang.org/changelogs/changelog-3.0.9.html) support.
- Fix use of VsCode setting groovyLint.basic.config to use a generic npm-groovy-lint configuration file
- Upgrade to MegaLinter v5 and move config in .mega-linter.yml file

### [1.4.0] 2020-12-15

- Upgrade to [npm-groovy-lint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm-groovy-lint) v8.1.0
  - Exclude `UnnecessaryGetter`, `FactoryMethodName`, `MethodReturnTypeRequired`, and `GStringExpressionWithinString` in `recommended-jenkinsfile` ([#140](https://github.com/nvuillam/npm-groovy-lint/pull/140)) ([Felipe Santos](https://github.com/felipecrs))

### [1.3.0] 2020-11-15

- Upgrade to [npm-groovy-lint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm-groovy-lint) v8.0.0
  - Upgrade to CodeNarc 2.0.0
  - Improve performances
  - Fix bugs

### [1.2.7] 2020-09-04

- Upgrade to [npm-groovy-lint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm-groovy-lint) v7.5.4

### [1.2.6] 2020-09-02

- Upgrade to [npm-groovy-lint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm-groovy-lint) v7.5.2
- Fix crash when empty groovy file
- Fix crash when non-sense groovy file

### [1.2.3] 2020-08-29

- Fix bug on Windows when username contains space(s)

### [1.2.2] 2020-08-21

- Allow user to hide future npm-groovy-lint error messages
- Manage correctly user choice `Never` for tabs auto-replacement by spaces
- Upgrade to [npm-groovy-lint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm-groovy-lint) v7.4.0

### [1.2.0] 2020-08-15

- Upgrade to [npm-groovy-lint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm-groovy-lint) v7.3.0
  - Allow to link to [CodeNarc RuleSet files](https://codenarc.github.io/CodeNarc/codenarc-creating-ruleset.html) from `.groovylintrc.json`, using property `"codenarcRulesets"`. Warning: doing so means that all other properties of config file will be ignored.

### [1.1.1] 2020-08-11

- Upgrade to [npm-groovy-lint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm-groovy-lint) v7.2.0
  - Upgrade[java-caller](https://www.npmjs.com/package/java-caller) to v2.0.0 : better performances

### [1.1.0] 2020-08-10

- Upgrade to [npm-groovy-lint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm-groovy-lint) v7.1.0
  - Externalize JavaCaller class into a separate package [java-caller](https://www.npmjs.com/package/java-caller) and use it

### PREVIOUS VERSIONS

See complete [CHANGELOG](https://github.com/nvuillam/vscode-groovy-lint/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Commit message:

new settings option to show problems panel after initial pass (#183)
* add an option `showProblemsView`.

It controls if Problems View should open once after initial lint pass

* updated Changelog

* add option to README.md

* Update CHANGELOG.md

* Fix

* Fix MegaLinter

---------

Co-authored-by: Mikalai Kukhta <mikalai.kukhta@klarna.com>
Co-authored-by: Nicolas Vuillamy <nicolas.vuillamy@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Nicolas Vuillamy <nicolas.vuillamy@cloudity.com>

docs/index.md, after:

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD033 -->
# VsCode Groovy Lint, Format and Fix

[![Visual Studio Marketplace Version (including pre-releases)](https://img.shields.io/visual-studio-marketplace/v/NicolasVuillamy.vscode-groovy-lint)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=NicolasVuillamy.vscode-groovy-lint)
[![Visual Studio Marketplace Installs](https://img.shields.io/visual-studio-marketplace/i/NicolasVuillamy.vscode-groovy-lint)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=NicolasVuillamy.vscode-groovy-lint)
[![Test](https://github.com/nvuillam/vscode-groovy-lint/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/nvuillam/vscode-groovy-lint/actions/workflows/test.yml)
[![Mega-Linter](https://github.com/nvuillam/vscode-groovy-lint/actions/workflows/mega-linter.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/nvuillam/vscode-groovy-lint/actions/workflows/mega-linter.yml)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/nvuillam/vscode-groovy-lint.png)](https://github.com/nvuillam/vscode-groovy-lint/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/nvuillam/vscode-groovy-lint.png?label=Star&maxAge=2592000)](https://GitHub.com/nvuillam/vscode-groovy-lint/stargazers/)
[![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.png?style=flat-square)](https://makeapullrequest.com)

**Lint** (code quality), **Format** and **Auto-fix** your groovy files and Jenkinsfile

[Visual Studio Code extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=NicolasVuillamy.vscode-groovy-lint) embedding [npm-groovy-lint](https://github.com/nvuillam/npm-groovy-lint#README), itself embedding [CodeNarc](https://codenarc.github.io/CodeNarc/)

- You can [configure the rules](https://github.com/nvuillam/npm-groovy-lint#configuration) by defining a `.groovylintrc.json` file
- If you use **CI**, you can integrate [Mega-Linter](https://github.com/nvuillam/mega-linter#readme) in your workflow, to **make sure all your sources (groovy and other) are clean**

![image](https://github.com/nvuillam/vscode-groovy-lint/raw/main/images/vscode-anim.gif)

## Features

| Command                                | Description                                                                                      | Access                                                   |
| -------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Analyze code**                       | Lint the code of the current file                                                                | Ctrl+Shift+F9<br/>Contextual</br>Status bar<br/>Commands |
| **Format**                             | Format the code of the current file                                                              | Shift+Alt+F<br/>Contextual</br>Commands                  |
| **Fix all auto-fixable problems**      | Fix the code of the current file                                                                 | Contextual</br>Commands                                  |
| **Lint folder**                        | Lint all applicable files of a folder                                                            | Contextual                                               |
| Fix single error                       | Apply quick fix for a single problem                                                             | Quick Fix<br/>Diagnostic                                 |
| Fix _rule_ in entire file              | Apply quick fix for all problems related to the same rule in the current file                    | Quick Fix<br/>Diagnostic                                 |
| Disable _rule_ for this line           | Disable rule only for current line                                                               | Quick Fix<br/>Diagnostic                                 |
| Disable _rule_ for this entire file    | Disable rule in the entire file                                                                  | Quick Fix<br/>Diagnostic                                 |
| Disable _rule_ for this entire project | Updates configuration file<br/>(usually `.groovylintrc.js` in root folder) to disable this rule | Quick Fix<br/>Diagnostic                                 |

- _**Contextual**_: *right click in source code or on folder_
- _**Commands**_: *Ctrl+Shift+P then type command name_
- _**Status bar**_: _GroovyLint status item at the bottom right_
- _**Quick Fix**_: _Hover an underlined part of the code after a lint, click Quick Fix then select action to perform_
- _**Diagnostic**_: _Right click on a diagnostic in Problems section_

## Extension Settings

| Parameter                     | Description                                                                                                     | Default              |
| ----------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------- |
| `groovyLint.enable`           | Controls whether GroovyLint is enabled or not                                                                   | true                 |
| `groovyLint.lint.trigger`     | Run the linter on save (onSave), on type (onType) , or on user request                                          | onSave               |
| `groovyLint.format.enable`    | Controls whether the groovy formatter is enabled or not                                                         | true                 |
| `groovyLint.fix.enable`       | Run the auto-fixer on save (onSave), on type (onType) , or on user request                                      | true                 |
| `groovyLint.fix.trigger`      | Run the fixer on save (onSave), or on user request                                                              | user                 |
| `groovyLint.basic.loglevel`   | Linting error level (error, warning,info)                                                                       | info                 |
| `groovyLint.basic.verbose`    | Turn on to have verbose logs                                                                                    | false                |
| `groovyLint.basic.config`     | [NPM groovy lint configuration file](https://github.com/nvuillam/npm-groovy-lint#configuration)                 | .groovylintrc.json   |
| `groovyLint.debug.enable`     | Display more logs in VsCode Output panel (select "GroovyLint") for issue investigation                          | false                |
| `groovyLint.java.executable`  | Override java executable to use <br/>Example: C:\\Program Files\\Java\\jdk1.8.0_144\\bin\\java.exe              | java                 |
| `groovyLint.java.options`     | Override java options to use                                                                                    | "-Xms256m,-Xmx2048m" |
| `groovyLint.insight.enable`   | Allow to send anonymous usage statistics used only to improve the tool (we will of course never send your code) | false                |
| `groovyLint.showProblemsView` | Show Problems View once after start                                                                             | false                |

## Troubleshooting

- [**Node.js**](https://nodejs.org) version **18 or higher** is required to run this extension. If you can't upgrade, you can use [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) to have [different node versions on your computer](https://www.sitepoint.com/quick-tip-multiple-versions-node-nvm/)

- [**Java**](https://www.java.com/download) version **17 or higher** is required to run this extension

- As CodeNarc is run in background with java/groovy, performances could be improved on large files (do not hesitate to provide advices !)
But do not worry, as the groovy linting is provided by a background local server, your VsCode won't be slowed.

## Contribute

Contributions are very welcome on :

- [VsCode Groovy Lint](https://github.com/nvuillam/vscode-groovy-lint)
- [NPM Groovy Lint](https://github.com/nvuillam/npm-groovy-lint) (linter called by this extension)

Please follow [Contribution instructions](https://github.com/nvuillam/vscode-groovy-lint/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)

## Special Thanks

- [stevenh](https://github.com/stevenh), for his huge refactoring of npm-groovy-lint and vscode-groovy-lint, saving them from deprecation :)

- [yuvmel](https://github.com/yuvmel), for his great support on [#18](https://github.com/nvuillam/vscode-groovy-lint/issues/18) that allowed VsCode Groovy Lint to work much better on Mac, Linux, and with other diagnostic extensions

## Release Notes

### [3.0.0] 2023-12-17

- Update all packages, to address security issues and bring in the latest version of npm-groovy-lint and related fixes.
- Refactor of tests to more reliable, including being independent of each other so if one test fails others are not effected.
- Fix partial fixes never applying due to [npm-groovy-lint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm-groovy-lint) v10.0.0 breaking change.
- Fix Analyze Groovy files in folder ([#177](https://github.com/nvuillam/vscode-groovy-lint/issues/177))
- Debug sessions correctly enable debugging by default including npm-groovy-lint.
- Upgrade MegaLinter and fix related issues

### [2.0.0] 2022-08-13

- Upgrade to [npm-groovy-lint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm-groovy-lint) v10.0.0
  - Upgrade to [CodeNarc 3.1.0](https://github.com/CodeNarc/CodeNarc/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
  - Many fixes and enhancements (see [npm-groovy-lint release note](https://github.com/nvuillam/npm-groovy-lint/releases/tag/v10.0.0))

- UI
  - Better display for issues contextual menu

- Fixes
  - Wrong lines highlighted when spaces are replaced by tabs
  - Document should not be reopened if closed without saving
  - Some errors were displayed at the beginning of the file instead of the good line
  - Wrong diagnostics lines are format or fix

### [1.9.1] 2022-08-08

- Fix bug when file diagnostics is stuck with message `GroovyLint is analyzing code...` ([#157](https://github.com/nvuillam/vscode-groovy-lint/issues/157))
- CI: Upgrade to [MegaLinter v6](https://oxsecurity.github.io/megalinter/latest/)

### [1.9.0] 2022-04-12

- Upgrade to [npm-groovy-lint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm-groovy-lint) v9.5.0
  - Disable telemetry by default

### [1.8.0] 2022-02-25

- Disable telemetry by default ([#93](https://github.com/nvuillam/vscode-groovy-lint/issues/93))

### [1.7.5] 2022-01-26

- Fix crash when npm-groovy-lint does not return results ([#141](https://github.com/nvuillam/vscode-groovy-lint/issues/141))

### [1.7.4] 2022-01-09

- Upgrade to [npm-groovy-lint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm-groovy-lint) v9.3.2
  - Upgrade cli-progress to avoid [colors lib boring but harmless hack](https://github.com/Marak/colors.js/issues/285)

### [1.7.3] 2022-01-06

- Upgrade to [npm-groovy-lint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm-groovy-lint) v9.3.1
  - Fix issue when used as module and with file containing spaces ([#137](https://github.com/nvuillam/vscode-groovy-lint/issues/137))

### [1.7.2] 2021-12-29

- Upgrade to [npm-groovy-lint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm-groovy-lint) v9.3.0
  - Upgrade again log4j to avoid security flaw

### [1.7.1] 2021-12-24

- Upgrade to [npm-groovy-lint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm-groovy-lint) v9.2.0
  - Upgrade again log4j to avoid security flaw

### [1.7.0] 2021-12-14

- Upgrade to [npm-groovy-lint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm-groovy-lint) v9.1.0
  - Upgrade log4j to avoid security flaw

### [1.6.0] 2021-11-27

- Detect Jenkinsfile

### [1.5.2] 2021-11-24

- Fix TS error & package-lock.json version

### [1.5.1] 2021-11-23

- Upgrade to [npm-groovy-lint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm-groovy-lint) v9.0.0
  - Upgrade to [CodeNarc 2.2](https://github.com/CodeNarc/CodeNarc/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
  - Adds [Groovy 3.0.9](http://groovy-lang.org/changelogs/changelog-3.0.9.html) support.
- Fix use of VsCode setting groovyLint.basic.config to use a generic npm-groovy-lint configuration file
- Upgrade to MegaLinter v5 and move config in .mega-linter.yml file

### [1.4.0] 2020-12-15

- Upgrade to [npm-groovy-lint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm-groovy-lint) v8.1.0
  - Exclude `UnnecessaryGetter`, `FactoryMethodName`, `MethodReturnTypeRequired`, and `GStringExpressionWithinString` in `recommended-jenkinsfile` ([#140](https://github.com/nvuillam/npm-groovy-lint/pull/140)) ([Felipe Santos](https://github.com/felipecrs))

### [1.3.0] 2020-11-15

- Upgrade to [npm-groovy-lint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm-groovy-lint) v8.0.0
  - Upgrade to CodeNarc 2.0.0
  - Improve performances
  - Fix bugs

### [1.2.7] 2020-09-04

- Upgrade to [npm-groovy-lint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm-groovy-lint) v7.5.4

### [1.2.6] 2020-09-02

- Upgrade to [npm-groovy-lint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm-groovy-lint) v7.5.2
- Fix crash when empty groovy file
- Fix crash when non-sense groovy file

### [1.2.3] 2020-08-29

- Fix bug on Windows when username contains space(s)

### [1.2.2] 2020-08-21

- Allow user to hide future npm-groovy-lint error messages
- Manage correctly user choice `Never` for tabs auto-replacement by spaces
- Upgrade to [npm-groovy-lint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm-groovy-lint) v7.4.0

### [1.2.0] 2020-08-15

- Upgrade to [npm-groovy-lint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm-groovy-lint) v7.3.0
  - Allow to link to [CodeNarc RuleSet files](https://codenarc.github.io/CodeNarc/codenarc-creating-ruleset.html) from `.groovylintrc.json`, using property `"codenarcRulesets"`. Warning: doing so means that all other properties of config file will be ignored.

### [1.1.1] 2020-08-11

- Upgrade to [npm-groovy-lint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm-groovy-lint) v7.2.0
  - Upgrade[java-caller](https://www.npmjs.com/package/java-caller) to v2.0.0 : better performances

### [1.1.0] 2020-08-10

- Upgrade to [npm-groovy-lint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm-groovy-lint) v7.1.0
  - Externalize JavaCaller class into a separate package [java-caller](https://www.npmjs.com/package/java-caller) and use it

### PREVIOUS VERSIONS

See complete [CHANGELOG](https://github.com/nvuillam/vscode-groovy-lint/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
